## 2 Samuel 21

```
Gibeonites avenged on Saul’s house (1-14)
Wars against the Philistines (15-22)
```

#### 2Sa 21:15-17​—What lessons can we draw from this account? (w13 1/15 31 ¶14)

Worldwide, we as Jehovah’s people are carrying out our ministry despite the obstacles that Satan and his agents place in our path. Some of us have stood face-to-face with giant challenges, but with full reliance on Jehovah, we took on those “Goliaths” and conquered them. However, at times, the constant battle against the pressures of this world leaves us tired and discouraged. In that weakened condition, we are vulnerable and in danger of being ‘struck down’ by pressures we otherwise would have dealt with successfully. At such moments, the timely support given by an elder can help us to regain our joy and our strength, as many have experienced. A pioneer in her mid-60’s related: “Some time ago, I did not feel well, and field service tired me out. An elder noticed my lack of energy and approached me. We had an encouraging conversation based on a Bible passage. I applied the suggestions he gave me, and I benefited.” She added: “How loving of that elder to take note of my weak condition and to give me help!” Yes, it is heartening to know that we have elders who keep a loving eye on us and who, much like Abishai of old, stand ready to ‘come to our help.’

### Jehovah Is a God of Justice

from [workbook July–August 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/july-august-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-July-11-17-2022/Jehovah-Is-a-God-of-Justice/)

- Jehovah did not forget the injustice committed against the Gibeonites (2Sa 21:1, 2)
- Silver and gold could not atone for the bloodguilt of Saul and his household (Nu 35:31, 33; 2Sa 21:3, 4)
- Seven of Saul’s descendants were executed to satisfy justice (2Sa 21:5, 6; it-1 932 ¶1)

How can Romans 12:19-21 help us when we are victims of unjust treatment?
