## 1 Kings 7

```
Solomon’s palace complex (1-12)
Skilled Hiram to assist Solomon (13-47)
  The two copper pillars (15-22)
  The Sea of cast metal (23-26)
  Ten carriages and basins of copper (27-39)
Furnishings of gold completed (48-51)
```

#### 1Ki 7:23​—What lesson can we learn from the large “Sea of cast metal” that was constructed for the temple? (it-1 263)

Physical cleanliness is required of those who worship Jehovah in holiness and purity. This was demonstrated in connection with the tabernacle arrangement and the later temple service. At their installation, High Priest Aaron and his sons bathed before donning the official garments. (Ex 29:4-9; 40:12-15; Le 8:6, 7) To wash their hands and feet, the priests used water from the copper basin in the courtyard of the tabernacle and, later, from the huge molten sea at Solomon’s temple. (Ex 30:18-21; 40:30-32; 2Ch 4:2-6) On the Day of Atonement the high priest bathed twice. (Le 16:4, 23, 24) Those who took the goat for Azazel, the remains of the animal sacrifices, and the sacrificial red cow outside the camp had to bathe their flesh and wash their garments before reentering the camp.​—Le 16:26-28; Nu 19:2-10.

### What We Can Learn From Two Pillars

from [workbook July–August 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/july-august-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-August-22-28-2022/What-We-Can-Learn-From-Two-Pillars/)

- Two conspicuous pillars were built for the porch of the temple (1Ki 7:15, 16; w13 12/1 13 ¶3)
- The pillars were given meaningful names (1Ki 7:21; it-1 348)
- Jehovah would help the people “firmly establish” the temple as long as they relied on him (1Ki 7:21, ftn.; Ps 127:1)

Jehovah may have helped us to overcome many obstacles in order to come into the truth. But we must continue to rely on him in order to “stand firm in the faith.”​—1Co 16:13.
