## 1 Kings 8

```
The Ark brought into the temple (1-13)
Solomon addresses the people (14-21)
Solomon’s prayer of temple dedication (22-53)
Solomon blesses the people (54-61)
Sacrifices and dedication festival (62-66)
```

#### 1Ki 8:27​—What does Solomon’s statement not mean? (it-1 1060 ¶4)

Solomon, the constructor of the temple at Jerusalem, stated that the “heavens, yes, the heaven of the heavens” cannot contain God. (1Ki 8:27) As the Creator of the heavens, Jehovah’s position is far above them all, and “his name alone is unreachably high. His dignity is above earth and heaven.” (Ps 148:13) Jehovah measures the physical heavens as easily as a man would measure an object by spreading his fingers so that the object lies between the tips of the thumb and the little finger. (Isa 40:12) Solomon’s statement does not mean that God has no specific place of residence. Nor does it mean that he is omnipresent in the sense of being literally everywhere and in everything. This can be seen from the fact that Solomon also spoke of Jehovah as hearing “from the heavens, your established place of dwelling,” that is, the heavens of the spirit realm.​—1Ki 8:30, 39.

### Solomon’s Humble, Heartfelt Public Prayer

from [workbook July–August 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/july-august-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-August-29-September-4-2022/Solomons-Humble-Heartfelt-Public-Prayer/)

- At the temple inauguration, Solomon offered a heartfelt prayer in front of the people (1Ki 8:22; w09 11/15 9 ¶9-10)
- Solomon praised Jehovah and did not draw attention to himself (1Ki 8:23, 24)
- Solomon prayed with a humble spirit (1Ki 8:27; w99 1/15 17 ¶7-8)

Solomon provides a good example, especially for those who pray publicly. We should focus more on how we sound to Jehovah than on how we sound to people.
