## 1 Kings 10

```
Queen of Sheba visits Solomon (1-13)
Solomon’s great wealth (14-29)
```

#### 1Ki 10:10, 14​—What evidence shows that the amount of gold that King Solomon possessed was not exaggerated? (w08 11/1 22 ¶4-6)

The Scriptures say that Hiram, king of Tyre, sent four tons [4 t] of gold to Solomon, the queen of Sheba gave him a similar amount, and Solomon’s fleet brought over 15 tons [14 t] of gold from Ophir. “The weight of the gold that came to Solomon in one year,” says the account, “amounted up to six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,” or more than 25 tons [22 t]. (1 Kings 9:14, 28; 10:10, 14) Is this plausible? How big were royal gold reserves in antiquity?

An ancient inscription, which scholars judge as credible, states that Pharaoh Thutmose III of Egypt (second millennium B.C.E.) presented some 13.5 tons [12 t] of gold to the temple of Amun-Ra at Karnak. During the eighth century B.C.E., the Assyrian King Tiglath-pileser III received over 4 tons [4 t] of gold in tribute from Tyre, and Sargon II gave the same amount of gold as a gift to the gods of Babylon. King Philip II of Macedonia (359-336 B.C.E.) is reported to have extracted more than 28 tons [25 t] of gold each year from the mines of Pangaeum in Thrace.

When Philip’s son Alexander the Great (336-323 B.C.E.) captured the Persian city of Susa, he is said to have taken some 1,180 tons [1,070 t] of gold from it and almost 7,000 tons [more than 6,000 t] from the whole of Persia. So when compared with these reports, the Bible’s description of King Solomon’s gold is not exaggerated.

### Praise Jehovah for His Wisdom

from [workbook September–October 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-october-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-September-5-11-2022/Praise-Jehovah-for-His-Wisdom/)

- Jehovah gave Solomon extraordinary wisdom (1Ki 10:1-3; w99 7/1 30 ¶6)
- The queen of Sheba was astounded by the wisdom Jehovah gave Solomon (1Ki 10:4, 5; w99 11/1 20 ¶6)
- The queen of Sheba praised Jehovah for appointing Solomon as king (1Ki 10:6-9; w99 7/1 30-31)

Like the queen of Sheba, we can show appreciation for God-given wisdom. How? One way is by applying Jesus’ teachings in our life and doing our best to imitate his example. (Mt 12:42; 1Pe 2:21) Another way is to share godly wisdom with others in our ministry.
