## 1 Kings 12

```
Rehoboam’s harsh reply (1-15)
Ten tribes revolt (16-19)
Jeroboam made king of Israel (20)
Rehoboam not to fight against Israel (21-24)
Jeroboam’s calf worship (25-33)
```

#### 1Ki 12:21-24​—What lesson do we learn from King Rehoboam’s obedience? (w18.06 14 ¶1-4)

In response to the revolt, Rehoboam mustered his army. But Jehovah intervened through the prophet Shemaiah, saying: “You must not go up and fight against your Israelite brothers. Each one of you must return to his house, for I have caused this to happen.”​—1 Ki. 12:21-24. *

Not even put up a fight? You can imagine how that would have troubled Rehoboam! What would people think of the king who threatened to punish his subjects “with scourges” yet soon yielded to this flagrant rebellion? (Compare 2 Chronicles 13:7.) Nevertheless, the king and his armies “obeyed the word of Jehovah and went back home, as Jehovah had told them.”

What is the lesson for us? It is wise to obey God even if doing so might expose us to some ridicule. Obedience to God leads to his favor and blessing.​—Deut. 28:2.

What was the result for Rehoboam? Obediently abandoning his plan to fight the newly established nation, he turned his attention to building cities in the tribal territories of Judah and Benjamin over which he still reigned. He reinforced a number of cities “to a very great degree.” (2 Chron. 11:5-12) More important, for a time he adhered to Jehovah’s laws. As the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel under Jeroboam sank into idolatry, many from there “supported Rehoboam” by traveling to Jerusalem to take their stand for true worship. (2 Chron. 11:16, 17) Thus, Rehoboam’s obedience strengthened his kingship.
