## 1 Kings 18

```
Elijah meets Obadiah and Ahab (1-18)
Elijah versus the Baal prophets at Carmel (19-40)
  ‘Limping between two opinions’ (21)
The three-and-a-half-year drought ends (41-46)
```

#### 1Ki 18:1​—Why did Jesus say that the drought in Elijah’s day lasted “three years and six months”? (Lu 4:25; w08 4/1 19, box)

Jehovah’s prophet Elijah announced to King Ahab that the long drought would end soon. That happened “in the third year”​—evidently counting from the day Elijah first announced the drought. (1 Kings 18:1) Jehovah sent rain soon after Elijah said that He would. Some might conclude, then, that the drought ended during the course of its third year and that it was therefore less than three years long. However, both Jesus and James tell us that the drought lasted “three years and six months.” (Luke 4:25; James 5:17) Is this a contradiction?

Not at all. You see, the dry season in ancient Israel was quite long, lasting up to six months. No doubt Elijah came to Ahab to announce the drought when the dry season was already proving to be unusually long and severe. In effect, the drought had begun nearly half a year earlier. Thus, when Elijah announced the end of the drought “in the third year” from his previous announcement, the drought had already lasted nearly three and a half years. The full “three years and six months” had elapsed by the time all the people assembled to witness the great test on Mount Carmel.

Consider, then, the timing of Elijah’s first visit to Ahab. The people believed that Baal was “the rider of the clouds,” the god who would bring rains to end the dry season. If the dry season was unusually long, people likely wondered: ‘Where is Baal? When will he bring the rains?’ Elijah’s announcement that neither rain nor dew would occur until he said so must have been devastating to those Baal worshippers.​—1 Kings 17:1.

### “How Long Will You Be Limping Between Two Different Opinions?”

from [workbook September–October 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-october-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-3-9-2022/How-Long-Will-You-Be-Limping-Between-Two-Different-Opinions/)

- Elijah challenged the Israelites to act decisively (1Ki 18:21; w17.03 14 ¶6)
- Baal was a lifeless god (1Ki 18:25-29; ia 88 ¶15)
- Jehovah proved his own godship in a dramatic way (1Ki 18:36-38; ia 90 ¶18)

Elijah called on the people to prove their faith by obeying Jehovah’s Law. (De 13:5-10; 1Ki 18:40) Today, we prove our faith and godly devotion by strictly obeying Jehovah’s commands.
