## 1 Kings 19

```
Elijah flees Jezebel’s wrath (1-8)
Jehovah appears to Elijah at Horeb (9-14)
Elijah to anoint Hazael, Jehu, Elisha (15-18)
Elisha appointed to succeed Elijah (19-21)
```

#### 1Ki 19:19-21​—What does this account teach us about accepting a new assignment of sacred service? (w97 11/1 31 ¶2)

When extended the invitation to special service with Elijah, Elisha immediately left his field to minister to Israel’s foremost prophet. Evidently, some of his duties were menial, for he became known as the one who “poured out water upon the hands of Elijah.”c (2 Kings 3:11) Nevertheless, Elisha viewed his work as a privilege, and he stuck loyally by Elijah’s side.

Many of God’s servants today display a similar spirit of self-sacrifice. Some have left their “fields,” their livelihoods, to preach the good news in distant territories or to serve as members of a Bethel family. Others have traveled to foreign lands to work on the Society’s construction projects. Many have accepted what might be called lowly tasks. Yet, no one who slaves for Jehovah is performing an insignificant service. Jehovah appreciates all who serve him willingly, and he will bless their spirit of self-sacrifice.—Mark 10:29, 30.

### Look to Jehovah for Comfort

from [workbook September–October 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-october-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-10-16-2022/Look-to-Jehovah-for-Comfort/)

- Elijah became afraid and ran for his life (1Ki 19:3, 4; w19.06 15 ¶5)
- Jehovah gave him practical assistance and showed him awe-inspiring displays of power (1Ki 19:5-7, 11, 12; ia 103 ¶13; 106 ¶21)
- Jehovah gave him work to do (1Ki 19:15-18; ia 106 ¶22)

Jehovah speaks to us today through the pages of his Word, reminding us that he truly cares for us and that he gives us meaningful work to do in his service.​—1Co 15:58; Col 3:23.
