## 1 Kings 21

```
Ahab covets Naboth’s vineyard (1-4)
Jezebel maneuvers Naboth’s death (5-16)
Elijah’s message against Ahab (17-26)
Ahab humbles himself (27-29)
```

#### 1Ki 21:27-29​—How do we know that Ahab’s actions did not indicate true repentance? (w21.10 3 ¶4-6)

Finally, Jehovah’s patience came to an end. He sent Elijah to pronounce sentence on Ahab and Jezebel. Their entire family line was to be wiped out. Elijah’s words hit Ahab hard! Surprisingly, that arrogant man “humbled himself.”​—1 Ki. 21:19-29.

Although Ahab humbled himself on that occasion, his conduct afterward showed that he was not truly repentant. He did not try to remove Baal worship from his kingdom. And he did not promote the worship of Jehovah. Ahab showed his lack of repentance in other ways as well.

Later, when Ahab invited good King Jehoshaphat of Judah to join him in the war against the Syrians, Jehoshaphat suggested that they first consult a prophet of Jehovah. Initially, Ahab rejected the idea, saying: “There is still one more man through whom we can inquire of Jehovah; but I hate him, for he never prophesies good things concerning me, only bad.” Even so, they consulted the prophet Micaiah. Sure enough, the man of God foretold bad news for Ahab! Rather than repentantly seek Jehovah’s forgiveness, wicked Ahab had the prophet thrown into prison. (1 Ki. 22:7-9, 23, 27) Although the king managed to imprison Jehovah’s prophet, he could not prevent the prophecy from coming true. In the battle that followed, Ahab was killed.​—1 Ki. 22:34-38.
