## Leviticus 5

```
Specific sins and required offerings (1-6)
  Reporting sins of others (1)
Alternative offerings for the poor (7-13)
The guilt offering for unintentional sins (14-19)
```

#### Le 5:1​—How does this verse apply to Christians? (w16.02 30 ¶14)

Kindness can help you to deal with a conflict of loyalties. For example, you may have definite knowledge that a certain fellow believer is guilty of serious misconduct. You may feel loyal to him, especially if he is a close friend or a relative. But if you were to cover up the wrongdoing, you would be disloyal to God. Of course, your loyalty to Jehovah should come first. So like Nathan, be kind yet firm. Urge your friend or relative to seek the help of the elders. If he or she does not do so within a reasonable period of time, loyalty to God should move you to report the matter to the elders. In doing this, you are being loyal to Jehovah and kind to your friend or relative, for Christian elders will try to readjust such an individual with mildness.​—Read Leviticus 5:1; Galatians 6:1.

#### Le 5:15, 16​—How might someone have ‘behaved unfaithfully by unintentionally sinning against the holy things of Jehovah’? (it-1 1130 ¶2)

The firstborn males of cattle, sheep, and goats were counted as holy to Jehovah and were not to be redeemed. They were to be sacrificed, and a portion went to the sanctified priests. (Nu 18:17-19) The firstfruits and the tithe were holy, as were all sacrifices and all gifts sanctified to the service of the sanctuary. (Ex 28:38) All things holy to Jehovah were sacred and could not be considered lightly or used in a common, or profane, way. An example is the law regarding the tithe. If a man set aside the portion to be tithed, say, of his wheat crop, and then he or one of his household unintentionally took some of it for home use, such as cooking, the man was guilty of violating God’s law respecting holy things. The Law required that he make compensation to the sanctuary of an equal amount plus 20 percent, besides offering up a sound ram of the flock as a sacrifice. Thus, great respect was engendered for the holy things belonging to Jehovah.​—Le 5:14-16.

### Give Jehovah Your Best

**5:5-7, 11** from [workbook November 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/november-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-November-16-22-2020/Give-Jehovah-Your-Best/)

Poverty denied no one in Israel the privilege of making peace with Jehovah. Even the poorest Israelites could give Jehovah an acceptable offering, as long as it was their best. They could offer flour, but Jehovah still expected it to be “fine,” the kind used for honored guests. (Ge 18:6) Today, Jehovah accepts our best “sacrifice of praise,” regardless of how much our personal circumstances may limit what we can give.​—Heb 13:15.

How can this encourage you if you cannot do all that you did before, perhaps because of declining health or stamina?
