## Leviticus 6

```
More on the guilt offering (1-7)
Instructions on offerings (8-30)
  The burnt offering (8-13)
  The grain offering (14-23)
  The sin offering (24-30)
```

#### Le 6:13​—What is a traditional Jewish view of the origin of the fire on the altar, but what do the Scriptures indicate? ([it-1 833 ¶1 Fire](https://www.jw.org/en/library/books/Insight-on-the-Scriptures/Fire/#p5))

Fire figured in the worship carried on at the tabernacle and then later at the temple. Each morning and between the two evenings, the high priest was to burn incense on the altar of incense. (Ex 30:7, 8) God’s law required that the fire on the altar of burnt offering be kept burning continually. (Le 6:12, 13) The traditional Jewish view that the altar fire was originally kindled miraculously by God, though widely accepted, is not actually supported by the Scriptures. According to Jehovah’s initial instructions to Moses, the sons of Aaron were to “put fire on the altar and set wood in order on the fire” before placing the sacrifice on the altar. (Le 1:7, 8) It was *after* the installation of the Aaronic priesthood, and therefore after the installation sacrifices had been offered, that fire from Jehovah, probably proceeding from the cloud over the tabernacle, consumed the offering then upon the altar. In view of this, the miraculous fire manifested itself, not in kindling the wood on the altar, but in “consuming the burnt offering and the fatty pieces upon the altar.” The fire that then continued to burn on the altar, of course, was likely a result of the mixture of the fire from God and the fire already on the altar. (Le 8:14–9:24) Likewise, miraculous fire from Jehovah consumed the sacrifices right after Solomon’s prayer at the dedication of the temple.​—2Ch 7:1; see also Jg 6:21; 1Ki 18:21-39; 1Ch 21:26 for other examples of Jehovah’s use of miraculous fire when accepting the offerings of his servants.

#### Le 6:25​—How were sin offerings different from burnt offerings and communion offerings? (si 27 ¶15)

A sin offering is required for unintentional sins, or sins committed by mistake. The type of animal offered depends upon whose sin is being atoned for​—that of the priest, the people as a whole, a chieftain, or an ordinary person. Unlike the voluntary burnt and communion offerings for individuals, the sin offering is mandatory.​—4:1-35; 6:24-30.
