## Leviticus 10

```
Fire from Jehovah kills Nadab and Abihu (1-7)
Regulations for priests regarding drinking and eating (8-20)
```

#### Le 10:8-11​—What can we learn from these verses? (w14 11/15 17 ¶18)

To be holy, we must weigh the Scriptures carefully and do what God asks of us. Consider Aaron’s sons Nadab and Abihu, who were executed for offering “unauthorized fire,” perhaps while inebriated. (Lev. 10:1, 2) Note what God then told Aaron. (Read Leviticus 10:8-11.) Does that passage mean that we must not drink anything alcoholic before going to a Christian meeting? Think about these points: We are not under the Law. (Rom. 10:4) In some lands, our fellow believers use alcoholic beverages *in moderation* at meals before attending meetings. Four cups of wine were used at the Passover. When instituting the Memorial, Jesus had his apostles drink wine that represented his blood. (Matt. 26:27) The Bible condemns heavy drinking and drunkenness. (1 Cor. 6:10; 1 Tim. 3:8) And many Christians would feel impelled by their conscience to abstain completely from alcoholic beverages before engaging in any form of sacred service. However, circumstances vary from one country to another, and the important thing is for Christians to “distinguish between the holy thing and the profane” so as to conduct themselves with holiness that pleases God.

### Love for Jehovah Stronger Than Love for Family

** 10:1, 2, 4-7** from [workbook December 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/december-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-December-7-13-2020/Love-for-Jehovah-Stronger-Than-Love-for-Family/)

*Nadab and Abihu carrying fire holders filled with burning incense.*

Our loyalty to Jehovah can be greatly tested when a loved one is disfellowshipped. Jehovah’s instruction to Aaron provides a clear message to those who must cut off association with a disfellowshipped relative. Our love for Jehovah must be stronger than our love for unfaithful family members.

What blessings can come to those who work along with Jehovah’s instructions regarding disfellowshipped ones?​—1Co 5:11; 2Jo 10, 11
