## Deuteronomy 11

```
You have seen Jehovah’s greatness (1-7)
The Promised Land (8-12)
Rewards for obedience (13-17)
God’s words to be impressed on hearts (18-25)
“A blessing and a curse” (26-32)
```

#### De 11:29​—How, apparently, was this verse fulfilled? (it-1 925-926)

In harmony with instructions given by Moses, the tribes of Israel assembled at Mounts Gerizim and Ebal under Joshua’s direction shortly after their conquest of Ai. There the people heard the reading of the blessings they would receive if they obeyed Jehovah and the maledictions that awaited them if they disobeyed him. The tribes of Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin stood in front of Mount Gerizim. The Levites and the ark of the covenant were situated in the valley, and the other six tribes stood in front of Mount Ebal. (De 11:29, 30; 27:11-13; Jos 8:28-35) Apparently, the tribes stationed in front of Mount Gerizim responded to the blessings read in their direction, whereas the other tribes responded to the curses read in the direction of Mount Ebal. While it has been suggested that the blessings were read toward Mount Gerizim because of its greater beauty and fertility in contrast with rocky, largely barren Mount Ebal, the Bible does not furnish any information on this matter. The Law was read aloud “in front of  all the congregation of Israel, together with the women and the little ones and the alien residents who walked in their midst.” (Jos 8:35) This vast throng could hear the words from positions in front of either mountain. This was probably due, at least in part, to the excellent acoustics of the area.​—See EBAL, MOUNT.
