## 1 Chronicles 3

```
Descendants of David (1-9)
Royal line of David (10-24)
```

#### 1Ch 3:1-3​—Why were women occasionally named in genealogical registers? (it-1 911 ¶3-4)

Women were named in the genealogical registers occasionally when there was a historical reason to do so. At Genesis 11:29, 30, Sarai (Sarah) is mentioned, evidently for the reason that the promised Seed was to come through her, not through another wife of Abraham. Milcah may have been named in the same passage because she was the grandmother of Rebekah, Isaac’s wife, thereby showing Rebekah’s lineage as being from Abraham’s relatives, since Isaac was not to have a wife from the other nations. (Ge 22:20-23; 24:2-4) At Genesis 25:1, the name of Abraham’s later wife Keturah is given. This shows that Abraham married again after Sarah died and that his reproductive powers were still alive more than 40 years after their miraculous renewal by Jehovah. (Ro 4:19; Ge 24:67; 25:20) Also, it reveals the relationship of Midian and other Arabian tribes to Israel.

Leah, Rachel, and Jacob’s concubines, together with the sons they bore, are named. (Ge 35:21-26) This helps us to understand God’s later dealings with these sons. For similar reasons we find the names of other women in the genealogical registers. When an inheritance was transmitted through them, their names might be included. (Nu 26:33) Of course, Tamar, Rahab, and Ruth are outstanding. In each case, there is something remarkable about the manner in which these women came to be in the line of ancestry of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. (Ge 38; Ru 1:3-5; 4:13-15; Mt 1:1-5) Among other instances of the mention of women in the genealogical lists are 1 Chronicles 2:35, 48, 49; 3:1-3, 5.
