## 1 Chronicles 17

```
David not to build temple (1-6)
Covenant with David for a kingdom (7-15)
David’s prayer of thanksgiving (16-27)
```

#### 1Ch 17:16-18​—Like David, of what can we be confident? (w20.02 12, box)

Have you ever asked yourself, ‘Of all the billions of people alive on earth, why would Jehovah take notice of me?’ If so, you are in good company. King David wrote: “O Jehovah, what is man that you should notice him, the son of mortal man that you should pay attention to him?” (Ps. 144:3) David was confident that Jehovah knew him well. (1 Chron. 17:16-18) And through his Word and his organization, Jehovah reassures you that he notices the love you show for him. Consider some statements in God’s Word that can help you be certain of that fact:

- Jehovah noticed you even before you were born.​—Ps. 139:16.
- Jehovah knows what is in your heart, and he knows what you are thinking.​—1 Chron. 28:9.
- Jehovah personally listens to each one of your prayers.​—Ps. 65:2.
- Your actions affect Jehovah’s feelings.​—Prov. 27:11.
- Jehovah has personally drawn you to him.​—John 6:44.
- If you die, Jehovah knows you so well that he will be able to resurrect you. He will reconstruct your body and restore your mind along with your memories and other unique aspects of your personality.​—John 11:21-26, 39-44; Acts 24:15.

### Maintain Your Joy Despite Disappointments

from [workbook January–February 2023](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/january-february-2023-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-February-20-26-2023/Maintain-Your-Joy-Despite-Disappointments/)

- David longed to build a beautiful temple for Jehovah (1Ch 17:1, 2; w06 7/15 19 ¶1)
- Jehovah told David that he would not be the one to build the temple (1Ch 17:4)
- David remained absorbed in the work that Jehovah had assigned him (1Ch 17:7; 18:14)

If because of age, health, or other factors you are not eligible for a certain assignment, stay absorbed in the things that you can do.​—Ac 18:5; w21.08 22-23 ¶11.
