## Numbers 9

```
Provision for late Passover (1-14)
Cloud and fire above the tabernacle (15-23)
```

#### Nu 9:13​—What lesson can Christians learn from this direction to Israel? (it-1 199 ¶3)

**Importance of Assembling.** The importance of taking full advantage of Jehovah’s provisions for assembling to gain spiritual benefits is emphasized in connection with the annual Passover observance. Any male who was clean and was not on a journey but who neglected to keep the Passover was to be cut off in death. (Nu 9:9-14) When King Hezekiah called inhabitants of Judah and Israel to Jerusalem for a Passover celebration, his message was, in part: “You sons of Israel, return to Jehovah . . . do not stiffen your neck as your forefathers did. Give place to Jehovah and come to his sanctuary that he has sanctified to time indefinite and serve Jehovah your God, that his burning anger may turn back from you. . . . Jehovah your God is gracious and merciful, and he will not turn away the face from you if you return to him.” (2Ch 30:6-9) Willful failure to attend would certainly have indicated a forsaking of God. And, while such festivals as the Passover are not observed by Christians, Paul fittingly urged them not to abandon regular assemblies of God’s people, stating: “Let us consider one another to incite to love and fine works, not forsaking the gathering of ourselves together, as some have the custom, but encouraging one another, and all the more so as you behold the day drawing near.”​—Heb 10:24, 25; see CONGREGATION.

### How Jehovah Leads His People

from [workbook March-April 2021](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/march-april-2021-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-March-8-14-2021/How-Jehovah-Leads-His-People/)

- Jehovah decided where his people should go and when (Nu 9:17, 18; it-1 398 ¶3)
- Those in the camp needed to obey promptly (Nu 9:21, 22; w11 4/15 4-5)
- Jehovah used imperfect human representatives to give direction (Nu 10:5-8)

When we obey those taking the lead, we demonstrate obedience to Jehovah.
