## Numbers 13

```
The 12 spies sent into Canaan (1-24)
Bad report from ten spies (25-33)
```

####  Nu 13:27​—What did the spies report that should have strengthened Israel’s faith in Jehovah? (Le 20:24; it-1 740)

**THE land that God gave to Israel** was indeed a good land. When Moses sent spies ahead of the nation to explore the Promised Land and to obtain samples of its produce, they brought back figs, pomegranates, and a cluster of grapes that was so large that two men carried it between them on a bar! Though they drew back in fear because of lack of faith, they did report: The land “is indeed flowing with milk and honey.”​—Nu 13:23, 27.

Just before they finally entered the land, Jehovah’s spokesman assured the people: “Jehovah your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of torrent valleys of water, springs and watery deeps issuing forth in the valley plain and in the mountainous region, a land of wheat and barley and vines and figs and pomegranates, a land of oil olives and honey . . . in which you will lack nothing, a land the stones of which are iron and out of the mountains of which you will mine copper.” (De 8:7-9) To this day, the land continues to yield abundantly.

The beauty and splendor of that ancient land of promise is of keen interest to us today. Why? Because Messianic prophecies use the abundance with which Jehovah blessed ancient Israel to illustrate what God will do for all mankind under the rule of Jesus Christ, the “Prince of Peace.”​—Isa 9:6; Ps 67:4-7; 72:16.

### How Faith Makes Us Courageous

from [workbook March-April 2021](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/march-april-2021-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-March-22-28-2021/How-Faith-Makes-Us-Courageous/)

- The spies who gave a bad report lacked faith (Nu 13:31-33; 14:11)
- The lack of faith of the ten spies disheartened their brothers (Nu 14:1-4)
- The spies who maintained courage had strong faith (Nu 14:6-9; w06 10/1 16-17 ¶5-6)

The Israelites had already witnessed Jehovah’s saving acts in their behalf. This should have strengthened their faith that he would help them conquer Canaan.
