## Numbers 35

```
Cities for the Levites (1-8)
Cities of refuge (9-34)
```

#### Nu 35:31​—Why will Adam and Eve not benefit from the ransom sacrifice of Jesus? (w91 2/15 13 ¶13)

Neither Adam nor Eve, however, benefit from the ransom. The Mosaic Law contained this principle: “You must take no ransom for the soul of a murderer who is deserving to die.” (Numbers 35:31) Adam was not deceived, so his sin was willful, deliberate. (1 Timothy 2:14) It amounted to the murder of his offspring, for they now inherited his imperfection, thus coming under sentence of death. Clearly, Adam deserved to die, for as a perfect man, he had willfully chosen to disobey God’s law. It would have been contrary to Jehovah’s righteous principles for him to apply the ransom in Adam’s behalf. Paying the wage for Adam’s sin, however, does provide for the nullifying of the death sentence upon Adam’s offspring! (Romans 5:16) In a legal sense, the destructive power of sin is cut off right at its source. The ransomer ‘tastes death for every man,’ bearing the consequences of sin for all of Adam’s children.​—Hebrews 2:9; 2 Corinthians 5:21; 1 Peter 2:24.

### Take Refuge in Jehovah

from [workbook May-June 2021](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/may-june-2021-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-May-24-30-2021/Take-Refuge-in-Jehovah/)

- Six cities of refuge were provided in Israel for unintentional manslayers (Nu 35:15; w17.11 9 ¶4)
- The elders in Israel judged each case (Nu 35:24; w17.11 9 ¶6)
- The cities of refuge provided safety and security (Nu 35:25; w17.11 11 ¶13)

Just as the unintentional manslayer had to make sacrifices in order to enjoy the protection of the cities of refuge, we make sacrifices in order to benefit from God’s mercy and forgiveness.
