## 2 Kings 4

```
Elisha multiplies a widow’s oil (1-7)
A Shunammite woman’s hospitality (8-16)
Woman rewarded with a son; he dies (17-31)
Elisha resurrects the dead son (32-37)
Elisha makes stew edible (38-41)
Elisha multiplies bread (42-44)
```

#### 2Ki 4:38​—Who likely were “the sons of the prophets”? (it-2 697 ¶2)

**“Sons of the Prophets.”** As *Gesenius’ Hebrew Grammar* explains (Oxford, 1952, p. 418), the Hebrew *ben* (son of) or *benehʹ* (sons of) may denote “membership of a guild or society (or of a tribe, or any definite class).” (Compare Ne 3:8, where “a member of the ointment mixers” is literally “a son of the ointment mixers.”) “The sons of the prophets” may thus describe a school of instruction for those called to this vocation or simply a cooperative association of prophets. Such prophetic groups are mentioned as being at Bethel, Jericho, and Gilgal. (2Ki 2:3, 5; 4:38; compare 1Sa 10:5, 10.) Samuel presided over a group at Ramah (1Sa 19:19, 20), and Elisha seems to have held a similar position in his day. (2Ki 4:38; 6:1-3; compare 1Ki 18:13.) The record mentions their building their own dwelling place and the use of a borrowed tool, which may indicate that they lived simply. Though often sharing quarters and food in common, they might receive individual assignments to go out on prophetic missions.​—1Ki 20:35-42; 2Ki 4:1, 2, 39; 6:1-7; 9:1, 2.

### “Pick Up Your Son”

from [workbook September–October 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-october-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-31-November-6-2022/Pick-Up-Your-Son/)

- The Shunammite woman showed exceptional hospitality to Elisha (2Ki 4:8-10)
- Jehovah blessed her with a son (2Ki 4:16, 17; w17.12 4 ¶7)
- Jehovah used Elisha to resurrect her son (2Ki 4:32-37; w17.12 4 ¶8)

Are you grieving the death of a child? Jehovah feels your pain. Very soon, he will bring your loved one back to life. (Job 14:14, 15) What a glorious day that will be!
