## 2 Kings 17

```
Hoshea, king of Israel (1-4)
Fall of Israel (5, 6)
Israel exiled because of apostasy (7-23)
Foreigners brought into Samaritan cities (24-26)
Samaritans’ mixed religion (27-41)
```

#### 2Ki 17:29​—Who were “the Samaritans” mentioned in this verse, and to whom did this term come to refer? (it-2 847)

The term “Samaritans” first appeared in Scripture after the conquest of the ten-tribe kingdom of Samaria in 740 B.C.E.; it was applied to those who lived in the northern kingdom before that conquest as distinct from the foreigners later brought in from other parts of the Assyrian Empire. (2Ki 17:29) It appears that the Assyrians did not remove all the Israelite inhabitants, for the account at 2 Chronicles 34:6-9 (compare 2Ki 23:19, 20) implies that during King Josiah’s reign there were Israelites still in the land. In time, “Samaritans” came to mean the descendants of those left in Samaria and those brought in by the Assyrians. Therefore some were undoubtedly the products of mixed marriages. At a still later period, the name carried more of a religious, rather than a racial or political, connotation. “Samaritan” referred to one who belonged to the religious sect that flourished in the vicinity of ancient Shechem and Samaria and who held to certain tenets distinctly different from Judaism.​—Joh 4:9.

### Jehovah’s Patience Has Limits

from [workbook November–December 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/november-december-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-December-12-18-2022/Jehovahs-Patience-Has-Limits/)

- Jehovah allowed Assyria to conquer Israel (2Ki 17:5, 6; it-2 908 ¶5)
- Jehovah disciplined his people because they kept offending him (2Ki 17:9-12; it-1 414-415)
- Jehovah was patient with Israel and warned them repeatedly (2Ki 17:13, 14)

Our loving heavenly Father is very patient with imperfect mankind. (2Pe 3:9) However, in order to accomplish his purpose, he will act to destroy the wicked very soon. How should this motivate us to listen to correction and to preach with urgency?
