## 1 Samuel 19

```
Saul continues to hate David (1-13)
David escapes from Saul (14-24)
```

#### 1Sa 19:23, 24​—In what way might King Saul have behaved “as a prophet”? (it-2 695-696)

Though appointed by Jehovah’s spirit, it does not appear that the prophets spoke continually  under inspiration. Rather, God’s spirit ‘came upon them’ at certain times, revealing the messages to be announced. (Eze 11:4, 5; Mic 3:8) This had a stirring effect upon them, impelling them to speak. (1Sa 10:10; Jer 20:9; Am 3:8) Not only did they do things that were out of the ordinary but also their expression and manner doubtless reflected intensity and feeling that were truly extraordinary. This may explain in part what is meant by individuals’ “behaving like prophets.” (1Sa 10:6-11; 19:20-24; Jer 29:24-32; compare Ac 2:4, 12-17; 6:15; 7:55.) Their total concentration and zealous boldness in their mission might cause their behavior to appear strange, even irrational, to others, just as a prophet so appeared to military chiefs when Jehu was anointed. Yet, on realizing that the man was a prophet, the chiefs accepted his message with full seriousness. (2Ki 9:1-13; compare Ac 26:24, 25.) When Saul, in pursuit of David, was caused to ‘behave like a prophet,’ he stripped off his garments and lay “naked all that day and all that night,” during which time David evidently escaped. (1Sa 19:18–20:1) This does not mean that prophets frequently went naked, for the Biblical record shows the contrary. In the two other cases recorded, the prophet went naked for a purpose, to represent some facet of his prophecy. (Isa 20:2-4; Mic 1:8-11) The reason for Saul’s nakedness​—whether to show him as a mere man, divested of his royal garments, impotent against Jehovah’s own regal authority and power, or for some other purpose—​is not stated.
