## Exodus 6

```
Promise of freedom renewed (1-13)
  Jehovah’s name not fully known (2, 3)
Genealogy of Moses and Aaron (14-27)
Moses again to appear before Pharaoh (28-30)
```

#### Ex 6:3​—In what sense did Jehovah not make his name known to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? (it-1 78 ¶3-4)

Jehovah used the title “God Almighty” (*ʼEl Shad·daiʹ*) when making his promise to Abraham concerning the birth of Isaac, a promise requiring that Abraham have great faith in God’s power to carry out that promise. It was thereafter used when God was spoken of as the one who would bless Isaac and Jacob as heirs of the Abrahamic covenant.​—Ge 17:1; 28:3; 35:11; 48:3.

In harmony with this, Jehovah could later say to Moses: “I used to appear to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob as God Almighty [*beʼElʹ Shad·daiʹ*], but as respects my name Jehovah I did not make myself known to them.” (Ex 6:3) This could not mean that the name Jehovah was unknown to these patriarchs, since it was frequently used by them as well as by others before them. (Ge 4:1, 26; 14:22; 27:27; 28:16) In fact, in the book of Genesis, which relates the lives of the patriarchs, the word “Almighty” occurs only 6 times, whereas the personal name Jehovah was written 172 times in the original Hebrew text. Yet, while these patriarchs had come to appreciate by personal experience God’s right to and qualifications for the title of “the Almighty One,” they had not had opportunity to appreciate the full meaning and implications of his personal name, Jehovah. In this regard, *The Illustrated Bible Dictionary* (Vol. 1, p. 572) comments: “The former revelation, to the Patriarchs, concerned promises belonging to a distant future; it supposed that they should be assured that He, Yahweh, was such a God (*ʼel*) as was competent (one possible meaning of *sadday*) to fulfill them. The revelation at the bush was greater and more intimate, God’s power and immediate and continuing presence with them being all wrapped up in the familiar name of Yahweh.”​—Edited by J. D. Douglas, 1980.

### “Now You Will See What I Will Do to Pharaoh”

**6:1, 6, 7; 7:4, 5** from workbook July 2020

Before bringing the plagues on Egypt and delivering the Israelites from slavery, Jehovah told the Israelites what he was about to do. They would see Jehovah’s power demonstrated in ways that they had not previously witnessed, and the Egyptians would certainly know who Jehovah is. When God’s promises came true, the faith of the Israelites was strengthened, and this helped to counteract the false religious influences they had been exposed to in Egypt.
