## Exodus 8

```
Plague 2: frogs (1-15)
Plague 3: gnats (16-19)
Plague 4: gadflies (20-32)
  Goshen not affected (22, 23)
```

#### Ex 8:21​—What was the gadfly? (it-1 878)

[Heb., *ʽa·rovʹ*].

There is some uncertainty as to the particular insect designated by the original Hebrew word appearing in the Scriptures with reference to the fourth plague upon Egypt, the first from which the Israelites in Goshen were spared. (Ex 8:21, 22, 24, 29, 31; Ps 78:45; 105:31) ʽ*A·rov*ʹ has been variously rendered “gadfly” (*JB, NW, Ro*), “beetle” (*Yg*), “flies” (*AS, KJ, RS*), “gnats” (*AT*), and “dog fly” (*LXX*).

The English designation “gadfly” includes the various kinds of horseflies and botflies. Female horseflies pierce the skin of animals as well as man and then suck their blood. In the larval stage botflies live as parasites in the bodies of animals and man; those that infest humans are found in the tropics. A plague of gadflies would, therefore, have brought great suffering to the Egyptians and their livestock and, in certain cases, even death.

#### Ex 8:25-27​—Why did Moses say that Israel’s sacrifices would be “detestable to the Egyptians”? (w04 3/15 25 ¶9)

Many different animals were venerated in Egypt. The mention of sacrifices thus added force and persuasiveness to Moses’ insistence that Israel be allowed to go away to sacrifice to Jehovah.

### Proud Pharaoh Unwittingly Serves God’s Purpose

**8:15, 18, 19; 9:15-17** from workbook July 2020

Egyptian pharaohs viewed themselves as gods. This helps us understand why Pharaoh was too proud to listen to Moses and Aaron and even to his own magic-practicing priests.

Do you listen when others make suggestions? Do you appreciate it when someone counsels you? Or do you feel that you are always right? “Pride is before a crash.” (Pr 16:18) How important it is to guard against pride!
