## Exodus 12

```
Institution of Passover (1-28)
  Blood to be splashed on doorposts (7)
Plague 10: firstborn killed (29-32)
The Exodus begins (33-42)
  End of 430 years (40, 41)
Instructions for Passover participation (43-51)
```

#### Ex 12:12​—How were the plagues on the Egyptians, especially the tenth one, a judgment against their false gods? (it-2 582 ¶2)

The Ten Plagues upon Egypt all proved to be a judgment against the gods of Egypt, especially the tenth, the death of the firstborn. (Ex 12:12) For the ram (male sheep) was sacred to the god Ra, so that splashing the blood of the Passover lamb on the doorways would be blasphemy in the eyes of the Egyptians. Also, the bull was sacred, and the destruction of the firstborn of the bulls would be a blow to the god Osiris. Pharaoh himself was venerated as a son of Ra. The death of Pharaoh’s own firstborn would thus show the impotence of both Ra and Pharaoh.

#### Ex 12:14-16​—The Festival of Unfermented Cakes, as with other holy conventions, had what unique feature, and how did it benefit the Israelites? (it-1 504 ¶1)

A unique feature of all of these “holy conventions” was that during them the people were to do no laborious work. For instance, the first and seventh days of the Festival of Unfermented Cakes were “holy conventions,” concerning which Jehovah stated: “No work is to be done on them. Only what every soul needs to eat, that alone may be done for you.” (Ex 12:15, 16) However, during “holy conventions” the priests were busy offering sacrifices to Jehovah (Le 23:37, 38), certainly no violation of any command against doing normal daily work. These occasions were not periods of idleness for the people in general either but were times of great spiritual benefit. On the weekly Sabbath day, the people met together for public worship and instruction. They were then edified by the public reading and explanation of God’s written Word, as in the later synagogues. (Ac 15:21) Therefore, while the people did not do laborious work during the Sabbath day or the other “holy conventions,” they would then devote themselves to prayer and meditation on the Creator and his purposes.​—See ASSEMBLY.

### The Passover​—Its Significance for Christians

**12:5-7, 12, 13, 24-27** from [workbook July 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/july-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-July-27-August-2-2020/The-Passover-Its-Significance-for-Christians/)

In order for the Israelites to avoid being harmed by the tenth plague, it was vital for them to obey instructions. (Ex 12:28) On the night of Nisan 14, families were to assemble in their own home. They were to kill a sound one-year-old male lamb or goat. Its blood was to be sprinkled on the doorposts and on the upper part of the doorway. Then they were to roast the entire animal and eat it in a hurry. No one was to go out of the house until morning.​—Ex 12:9-11, 22.
