## Exodus 16

```
People murmur about food (1-3)
Jehovah hears the murmurings (4-12)
Quail and manna provided (13-21)
No manna on the Sabbath (22-30)
Manna kept as a reminder (31-36)
```

#### Ex 16:13​—Why might Jehovah have chosen quail to feed the Israelites in the wilderness? ([w11 9/1 14](https://www.jw.org/en/library/magazines/wp20110901/Did-You-Know/#p2-p6))

▪ Following the Israelites’ Exodus from Egypt, God twice provided them with an abundance of meat in the form of quail.​—Exodus 16:13; Numbers 11:31.

Quail are small birds, about 7 inches (18 cm) in length and weighing about 3.5 ounces (100 g). They breed in many parts of western Asia and Europe. Being migratory birds, they winter in North Africa and Arabia. During their seasonal passage, vast flocks traverse the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea and fly over the Sinai Peninsula.

According to The New Westminster Dictionary of the Bible, quail “fly rapidly and well, and take advantage of the wind; but if the wind changes its course, or the birds become exhausted from long flight, the whole immense flock is apt to fall to the ground, where the birds lie stunned.” Before continuing their migration, they have to rest on the ground for a day or two, thus becoming easy catch for hunters. In the early 20th century, Egypt was exporting some three million quail annually for food.

Both times that the Israelites fed on quail were in the spring. Although quail regularly flew over the Sinai area during that time, it was Jehovah who caused ‘a wind to burst forth’ to drive these birds into the Israelite encampment.​—Numbers 11:31.

#### Ex 16:32-34​—Where was the jar of manna kept? ([w06 1/15 31](https://www.jw.org/en/library/magazines/w20060115/Questions-From-Readers/#p5))

Shortly after their deliverance from Egypt, the Israelites began to murmur about food. So Jehovah provided manna for them. (Exodus 12:17, 18; 16:1-5) At that time, Moses instructed Aaron: “Take a jar and put in it an omerful of manna and deposit it before Jehovah as something to be kept throughout your generations.” The account states: “Just as Jehovah had commanded Moses, Aaron proceeded to deposit it before the Testimony [an archive for the safekeeping of important documents] as something to be kept.” (Exodus 16:33, 34) While Aaron undoubtedly gathered manna into a jar at that time, the depositing of it before the Testimony had to wait until Moses made the Ark and placed the tablets in it.
