## Exodus 17

```
Complaint about lack of water at Horeb (1-4)
Water from a rock (5-7)
Amalekites’ attack and defeat (8-16)
```

#### Ex 17:11-13​—How can we imitate the decisive action of Aaron and Hur? (w16.09 6 ¶14)

Aaron and Hur literally supported Moses’ hands during a battle. As for us, we can look for ways to support and to give practical aid to others. To whom? To those battling the effects of old age, health limitations, opposition from their family, loneliness, or the loss of a loved one. We can also strengthen young ones who are facing pressure to share in wrongdoing or to seek “success” in this system of things, whether academically, financially, or professionally. (1 Thess. 3:1-3; 5:11, 14) Look for ways to show genuine interest in others at the Kingdom Hall, in the ministry, while enjoying a meal together, or as you converse on the telephone.

#### Ex 17:14​—Why are Moses’ writings part of the Bible canon? ([it-1 406](https://www.jw.org/en/library/books/Insight-on-the-Scriptures/Canon/#p6))

That these writings of Moses were of divine origin, inspired of God, canonical, and a safe guideline for pure worship, there can be no doubt, in the light of internal evidence. It was not through Moses’ initiative that he became the leader and commander of the Israelites; at first Moses drew back at the suggestion. (Ex 3:10, 11; 4:10-14) Rather, God raised Moses up and invested in him such miraculous powers that even Pharaoh’s magic-practicing priests were compelled to acknowledge that what Moses did originated with God. (Ex 4:1-9; 8:16-19) So it was not Moses’ personal ambition to be an orator and writer. Rather, in obedience to God’s command and with the divine credentials of holy spirit, Moses was moved first to speak and then to write down part of the Bible canon.​—Ex 17:14.
