## Exodus 21

```
Judicial decisions for Israel (1-36)
  On Hebrew slaves (2-11)
  On violence done to a fellow man (12-27)
  On animals (28-36)
```

#### Ex 21:5, 6​—How do these verses illustrate the benefits of Christian dedication? (w10 1/15 4 ¶4-5)

Christian dedication is a serious matter. It is more than a mere commitment. How, though, does making a dedication benefit us? By way of comparison, let us consider how making a commitment in human relationships brings benefits. One example is friendship. To enjoy the privilege of having a friend, you have to accept the responsibility of being a friend. That involves a commitment​—you feel an obligation to care about your friend. One of the most outstanding friendships described in the Bible is that of David and Jonathan. They even made a covenant of friendship with each other. (Read 1 Samuel 17:57; 18:1, 3.) Although friendships with that level of commitment are rare, most friendships flourish when companions are committed, or feel some obligation, to each other.​—Prov. 17:17; 18:24.

The Law that God gave to Israel describes another relationship in which people benefited by making a commitment. If a slave wanted the security of belonging permanently to a good master, he could enter a permanent and binding agreement with him. The Law states: “If the slave should insistently say, ‘I really love my master, my wife and my sons; I do not want to go out as one set free,’ then his master must bring him near to the true God and must bring him up against the door or the doorpost; and his master must pierce his ear through with an awl, and he must be his slave to time indefinite.”​—Ex. 21:5, 6.

#### Ex 21:14​—How might this verse be explained? (it-1 1143)

The statement at Exodus 21:14 may mean that even a priest was to be executed for murder, or that the act of taking hold of the horns of the altar would not shield any willful murderer.​—Compare 1Ki 2:28-34.

### Reflect Jehovah’s View of Life

**21:20, 22, 23, 28, 29** from [workbook August 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/august-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-August-31-September-6-2020/Reflect-Jehovahs-View-of-Life/)

Jehovah views life as precious. How can we show that we share his view?

- Cultivate heartfelt love and respect for others.​—Mt 22:39; 1Jo 3:15
- Show such love by increasing your zeal in the ministry.​—1Co 9:22, 23; 2Pe 3:9
- Cultivate a proper attitude toward safety.​—Pr 22:3
