## Exodus 23

```
Judicial decisions for Israel (1-19)
  On honest and just behavior (1-9)
  On sabbaths and festivals (10-19)
Angelic guidance for Israel (20-26)
Land acquisition and boundaries (27-33)
```

### Do Not Follow After the Crowd

**23:1-3** from [workbook September 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-September-7-13-2020/Do-Not-Follow-After-the-Crowd/)

Jehovah’s warning to witnesses and judges in legal cases not to be swayed by the crowd to give false testimony or render a perverted judgment also applies to other areas of life. Christians are under constant pressure to conform to this world’s ungodly thinking and conduct.​—Ro 12:2.

Why is it unwise to follow after the crowd when
- hearing unsubstantiated rumors or gossip?
- choosing clothing, hairstyles, or entertainment?
- thinking about and dealing with people of a different race, culture, or economic standing?

#### Ex 23:9​—How did Jehovah appeal to the Israelites’ empathy? (w16.10 9 ¶4)

Rather than order the Israelites to respect foreigners, Jehovah appealed to their empathy. (Read Exodus 23:9.) They knew ‘how it felt to be a foreigner.’ Even before they were reduced to slavery, the Hebrews were likely shunned by the Egyptians because of racial pride or religious prejudice. (Gen. 43:32; 46:34; Ex. 1:11-14) The Israelites had experienced a bitter life as foreign residents, but Jehovah expected them to treat the foreigner “like a native” among them.​—Lev. 19:33, 34.

**23:19; 34:26**​—What was the significance of the command not to boil a kid in its mother’s milk? Boiling a kid (the young of a goat or other animal) in its mother’s milk reportedly was a pagan ritual thought to produce rain. Moreover, since the mother’s milk is for nourishing her young, boiling her offspring in it would be an act of cruelty. This law helped to show God’s people that they should be compassionate.

#### Ex 23:20, 21​—What evidence supports the conclusion that the angel mentioned here is Michael? (it-2 393)

The only holy angel other than Gabriel named in the Bible, and the only one called “archangel.” (Jude 9) The first occurrence of the name is in the tenth chapter of Daniel, where Michael is described as “one of the foremost princes”; he came to the aid of a lesser angel who was opposed by “the prince of the royal realm of Persia.” Michael was called “the prince of [Daniel’s] people,” “the great prince who is standing in behalf of the sons of [Daniel’s] people.” (Da 10:13, 20, 21; 12:1) This points to Michael as the angel who led the Israelites through the wilderness. (Ex 23:20, 21, 23; 32:34; 33:2) Lending support to this conclusion is the fact that “Michael the archangel had a difference with the Devil and was disputing about Moses’ body.”​—Jude 9.

**23:20-23**​—*Who was the angel mentioned here, and how was it that Jehovah’s name was “within him”?* Likely, this angel was Jesus in his prehuman form. He was used to guide the Israelites on their way to the Promised Land. (1 Corinthians 10:1-4) Jehovah’s name is “within him” in that Jesus is the principal one who upholds and sanctifies his Father’s name.
