## Exodus 25

```
Contributions for the tabernacle (1-9)
The Ark (10-22)
The table (23-30)
The lampstand (31-40)
```

### The Central Object of the Tabernacle

**25:9, 21, 22** from [workbook September 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/september-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-September-14-20-2020/The-Central-Object-of-the-Tabernacle/)

The Ark was the most important object of the tabernacle and of the camp of Israel. God’s presence was represented by a cloud between the two cherubs over the propitiatory cover of the Ark. On the annual Day of Atonement, the high priest entered the Most Holy and spattered the blood of a bull and a goat before the cover to atone for Israel’s sins. (Le 16:14, 15) This foreshadowed the entrance of Jesus, the greater High Priest, into the very presence of Jehovah in heaven to present the value of his ransom sacrifice.​—Heb 9:24-26.

Match the following scriptures to the benefits available to us because of the ransom:

**SCRIPTURES**
- 1Jo 1:8, 9
- Heb 9:13, 14
- Ro 6:23

**BENEFITS**
- hope of living forever
- forgiveness of sins
- clean conscience

#### Ex 25:20​—What apparently was the significance of the way the cherubs were positioned on the cover of the Ark? (it-1 432 ¶1)

Representative figures of cherubs were included in the furnishings of the tabernacle set up in the wilderness. Rising above each end of the Ark’s cover were two cherubs of hammered gold. They were facing each other and bowing toward the cover in an attitude of worship. Each had two wings that spread upward and screened over the cover in a guarding and protecting manner. (Ex 25:10-21; 37:7-9) Also, the inner covering of tent cloths for the tabernacle and the curtain dividing the Holy from the Most Holy had embroidered cherub figures.​—Ex 26:1, 31; 36:8, 35.

#### Ex 25:30​—What was the showbread? (it-2 936)

Twelve cakes of bread that were placed on a table in the Holy compartment of the tabernacle or temple and that were replaced with fresh ones each Sabbath. (Ex 35:13; 39:36; 1Ki 7:48; 2Ch 13:11; Ne 10:32, 33) The literal Hebrew designation for the showbread is the “bread of the face.” The word for “face” sometimes denotes “presence” (2Ki 13:23), and so the showbread was in front of Jehovah’s face as an offering before him constantly. (Ex 25:30, ftn) The showbread is also referred to as “layer bread” (2Ch 2:4), “loaves of presentation” (Mr 2:26), and simply “the loaves” (Heb 9:2).
