## Exodus 28

```
Priestly garments (1-5)
The ephod (6-14)
The breastpiece (15-30)
  Urim and Thummim (30)
The sleeveless coat (31-35)
The turban with the golden plate (36-39)
Other priestly garments (40-43)
```

#### Ex 28:15-21​—Where did the precious stones on the breastpiece of Israel’s high priest possibly come from? (w12 8/1 26 ¶1-3)

After the Israelites left Egypt and entered the wilderness, God gave them orders to make this breastpiece. (Exodus 28:15-21) The breastpiece had stones of ruby, topaz, emerald, turquoise, sapphire, jasper, leshem, agate, amethyst, chrysolite, onyx, and jade. (Fn: It is difficult to identify all these stones according to modern terminology.) Did the Israelites really have access to those types of gems?

In Bible times, people prized precious stones and traded them. The ancient Egyptians, for example, obtained gemstones from as far away as what is now modern-day Iran, Afghanistan, and possibly even India. Egyptian mines produced a number of different precious stones. The Egyptian monarchs had a monopoly on mineral extraction in the territories they controlled. The patriarch Job described how his contemporaries used shafts and underground galleries to search for treasures. Among other items dug from the ground, sapphire and topaz are specifically mentioned by Job.​—Job 28:1-11, 19.

The Exodus account states that the Israelites “stripped the Egyptians” of their valuables when leaving the land. (Exodus 12:35, 36) So it is possible that the Israelites obtained from Egypt the stones used on the high priest’s breastpiece.

#### Ex 28:38​—What were “the holy things”? (it-1 1130 ¶2)

**Animals and Produce.** The firstborn males of cattle, sheep, and goats were counted as holy to Jehovah and were not to be redeemed. They were to be sacrificed, and a portion went to the sanctified priests. (Nu 18:17-19) The firstfruits and the tithe were holy, as were all sacrifices and all gifts sanctified to the service of the sanctuary. (Ex 28:38) All things holy to Jehovah were sacred and could not be considered lightly or used in a common, or profane, way. An example is the law regarding the tithe. If a man set aside the portion to be tithed, say, of his wheat crop, and then he or one of his household unintentionally took some of it for home use, such as cooking, the man was guilty of violating God’s law respecting holy things. The Law required that he make compensation to the sanctuary of an equal amount plus 20 percent, besides offering up a sound ram of the flock as a sacrifice. Thus, great respect was engendered for the holy things belonging to Jehovah.​—Le 5:14-16.

### What Can We Learn From the Priests’ Garments?

**28:30, 36, 42, 43**

The garments worn by Israel’s priests remind us of the importance of seeking Jehovah’s direction, of being holy, and of displaying modesty and dignity.

- How do we seek Jehovah’s direction?
- What does it mean to be holy?
- How can we display modesty and dignity?
