## Exodus 32

```
Worship of the golden calf (1-35)
  Moses hears strange singing (17, 18)
  Moses smashes the law tablets (19)
  Levites loyal to Jehovah (26-29)
```

**32:1-8, 25-35**​—Why was Aaron not punished for making the golden calf? Aaron was not in heartfelt sympathy with the idolatry. Later, he apparently joined fellow Levites in taking a stand for God and against those who resisted Moses. After the guilty were slain, Moses reminded the people that they had sinned greatly, indicating that others besides Aaron also received Jehovah’s mercy.

#### Ex 32:32, 33​—How do we know that “once saved, always saved” is a false teaching? (w87 9/1 29)

A person’s being noted with remembrance and approval (having his name “in the book of life”) does not mean that he is guaranteed eternal life, as if this were predestined or unchangeable. Concerning the Israelites, Moses asked Jehovah: “Now if you will pardon their sin,​—and if not, wipe me out, please, from your book that you have written.” God replied: “Whoever has sinned against me, I shall wipe him out of my book.” (Exodus 32:32, 33) Yes, even after God listed someone with approval in his “book,” the individual could become disobedient or abandon his faith. If that developed, God would “blot out his name from the book of life.”​—Revelation 3:5.

### Flee From Idolatry

**32:1, 4-6, 9, 10** from [workbook October 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/october-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-5-11-2020/Flee-From-Idolatry/)

The Israelites’ view of idol worship had apparently been influenced by Egyptian thinking. Today, idolatry can take many forms, some of which could be hard to recognize. Although we might not turn to outright idol worship, we could become idolaters by allowing selfish desires to distract us from worshipping Jehovah whole-souled.
