## Exodus 34

```
New stone tablets prepared (1-4)
Moses sees Jehovah’s glory (5-9)
Details of the covenant repeated (10-28)
Moses’ face emits rays (29-35)
```

#### Ex 34:23, 24​—Why did Israelite men need faith to attend the three annual festivals? (w98 9/1 20 ¶5)

Three times a year every male Israelite and proselyte in the land was commanded to appear before Jehovah. Realizing that the entire family would benefit spiritually from such occasions, many family heads arranged for their wife and children to accompany them. But who would protect their homes and their fields from enemy attack while the family was away? Jehovah promised: “Nobody will desire your land while you are going up to see the face of Jehovah your God three times in the year.” (Exodus 34:24) It took faith for the Israelites to believe that if they put spiritual interests first, they would not lose out materially. Did Jehovah prove true to his word? He certainly did!

### Jehovah’s Endearing Qualities

**34:5-7** from [workbook October 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/october-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-12-18-2020/Jehovahs-Endearing-Qualities/)

Appreciation for Jehovah’s qualities helped Moses to deal patiently with the Israelites. Similarly, if we deepen our understanding of Jehovah’s qualities, we can deal mercifully with fellow believers.

- **“Merciful and compassionate”:** Jehovah looks after his worshippers with tender love and deep concern, just as parents look after their children
- **“Slow to anger”:** Jehovah is patient with his servants, putting up with their shortcomings and giving them time to make changes
- **“Abundant in loyal love”:** Jehovah forges an unfailing bond of loyal love with his people
