## Exodus 35

```
Sabbath instructions (1-3)
Contributions for the tabernacle (4-29)
Bezalel and Oholiab filled with spirit (30-35)
```

#### Ex 35:1-3​—What can we learn from the Sabbath law? (w05 5/15 23 ¶14)

*Give priority to spiritual matters.* The nation of Israel was not to allow caring for physical needs to crowd out attention given to spiritual activities. The Israelites’ lives were not to be devoted solely to mundane pursuits. Jehovah set aside time each week that he designated as sacred, time used exclusively for activity related to worship of the true God. (Exodus 35:1-3; Numbers 15:32-36) Each year, additional time was to be set aside for specified holy conventions. (Leviticus 23:4-44) These would provide opportunities to recount Jehovah’s mighty acts, to be reminded of his ways, and to express gratitude to him for all of his goodness. As the people expressed their devotion to Jehovah, they would grow in godly fear and love and would be helped to walk in his ways. (Deuteronomy 10:12, 13) The wholesome principles embodied in those instructions benefit Jehovah’s servants today.​—Hebrews 10:24, 25.

#### Ex 35:21​—How is the generous spirit of the Israelites an excellent example for us? (w00 11/1 29 ¶1)

Imagine, then, how the Israelites felt. Generations had suffered through bitter slavery and deprivation. Now they were free and had rich material possessions. How would they feel about parting with some of those possessions? They might have felt that they had earned them and had a right to keep them. However, when called upon to contribute financially to support pure worship, they did so​—and not reluctantly or stingily! They did not forget that Jehovah had made it possible for them to have those material things. Thus, they gave abundantly of their silver and gold and livestock. They were “willing-hearted.” Their ‘hearts impelled them.’ ‘Their spirit incited them.’ It truly was “a voluntary offering to Jehovah.”​—Exodus 25:1-9; 35:4-9, 20-29; 36:3-7.

### Equipped to Do Jehovah’s Work

**35:25, 26, 30-35; 36:1, 2** from [workbook October 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/october-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-19-25-2020/Equipped-to-Do-Jehovahs-Work/)

Jehovah’s holy spirit equipped Bezalel and Oholiab to carry out the detailed plans for the tabernacle. Jehovah’s powerful holy spirit is also available to his servants today. How can we benefit from it?

- We must pray for holy spirit to heighten any abilities we have in Jehovah’s service
- We must diligently feed on God’s inspired Word
- We should pour our heart into any assignment we are given
