## Exodus 37

```
Making the Ark (1-9)
The table (10-16)
The lampstand (17-24)
The altar of incense (25-29)
```

#### Ex 37:1, 10, 25​—Why was acacia wood a fine building material for the tabernacle? (it-1 36)

The acacia has many long thorns extending out from the widely spreading branches. These branches usually interlace with those of the neighboring acacias to form tangled thickets; this fact doubtless explains why the plural form *shit·timʹ* is almost always used in the Bible record. The acacia may grow to heights of 6 to 8 m (20 to 26 ft), but often is bushlike in appearance. It has soft, feathery leaves and is covered with pleasingly fragrant yellow blossoms, producing curved tapering pods as its fruit. The rough, black bark covers a very hard, fine-grained, heavy wood that is immune to insect attack. These characteristics and its availability in the desert made the acacia especially well suited as a building material for the tabernacle and its furnishings. It was employed to construct the ark of the covenant (Ex 25:10; 37:1), the table of showbread (Ex 25:23; 37:10), altars (Ex 27:1; 37:25; 38:1), poles for carrying these items (Ex 25:13, 28; 27:6; 30:5; 37:4, 15, 28; 38:6), pillars for the curtain and screen (Ex 26:32, 37; 36:36), and the panel frames (Ex 26:15; 36:20) and their connecting bars (Ex 26:26; 36:31).

### Tabernacle Altars and Their Role in True Worship

**37:25, 29; 38:1** from [workbook October 2020](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/october-2020-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-October-26-November-1-2020/Tabernacle-Altars-and-Their-Role-in-True-Worship/)

The tabernacle altars were built according to Jehovah’s instructions and had special significance.

**The incense altar.** - Like the burning of skillfully blended incense, acceptable prayers offered up by Jehovah’s servants are pleasing to him

**The altar of burnt offering.** - Jehovah accepted sacrifices made on the altar of burnt offering. Its location in front of the sanctuary reminds us that faith in the ransom sacrifice of Jesus is necessary for acceptance by God.​—Joh 3:16-18; Heb 10:5-10
