## 2 Chronicles 9

```
Queen of Sheba visits Solomon (1-12)
Solomon’s wealth (13-28)
Death of Solomon (29-31)
```

#### 2Ch 9:19​—What may the 12 lion statues leading to Solomon’s throne have represented? (it-2 1097)

The only throne of a ruler of Israel described in detail is the one Solomon made. (1Ki 10:18-20; 2Ch 9:17-19) It appears to have been located in “the Porch of the Throne,” one of the buildings that stood on Mount Moriah in Jerusalem. (1Ki 7:7) It was ‘a great ivory throne overlaid with refined gold with a round canopy behind it and armrests.’ Although ivory could have been the basic material in this royal chair, the construction technique generally followed at the temple would seem to indicate that it was made of wood, overlaid with refined gold and richly ornamented with inlaid panels of ivory. To the observer, such a throne would appear to be made entirely of ivory and gold. After mentioning six steps leading to the throne, the record continues: “Two lions were standing beside the armrests. And there were twelve lions standing there upon the six steps, on this side and on that side.” (2Ch 9:17-19) The symbolism of the lion denoting ruling authority is appropriate. (Ge 49:9, 10; Re 5:5) The 12 lions appear to have corresponded to the 12 tribes of Israel, possibly symbolizing their subjection to and support of the ruler on this throne. Attached in some way to the throne was a footstool of gold. By its description this ivory-and-gold throne​—in its lofty, canopied position with the majestic lions in front—​transcends any throne of that time period, whether discovered by archaeologists, depicted on the monuments, or described in the inscriptions. As the chronicler truthfully observed: “No other kingdom had any made just like it.”​—2Ch 9:19.

### She Valued Wisdom

from [workbook March–April 2023](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/march-april-2023-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-April-10-16-2023/She-Valued-Wisdom/)

- The queen of Sheba made a long and arduous trip to see Solomon (2Ch 9:1, 2; w99 11/1 20 ¶4; w99 7/1 30 ¶4-5)
- Solomon’s wisdom and riches left her breathless (2Ch 9:3, 4; w99 7/1 30-31; see cover picture)
- What she saw moved her to praise Jehovah (2Ch 9:7, 8; it-2 990-991)

The queen of Sheba valued wisdom so much that she was willing to make great sacrifices to obtain it.
