## 2 Chronicles 29

```
Hezekiah, king of Judah (1, 2)
Hezekiah’s reforms (3-11)
Temple cleansed (12-19)
Temple services revived (20-36)
```

#### 2Ch 29:11—How did Hezekiah set a good example regarding priorities? (w13 11/15 17 ¶6-7)

Ahaz died in 746 B.C.E., and his son Hezekiah inherited the materially impoverished and spiritually bankrupt kingdom of Judah. As the young king ascended the throne, what would his priority be? To shore up Judah’s ailing economy? No. Hezekiah was a spiritual man, a worthy shepherd of his national flock. His first act was to reestablish pure worship and to reinforce the wayward nation’s frayed relationship with Jehovah. When he understood God’s will for him, Hezekiah acted decisively. What a fine example for us!—2 Chron. 29:1-19.

The Levites would play a vital role in the important task of restoring pure worship. Therefore, Hezekiah met with them to assure them of his support. Picture the faithful Levites who were present at that meeting, tears of joy streaming down their faces as they heard their king declare: “You are the ones whom Jehovah has chosen to stand before him to minister to him.” (2 Chron. 29:11) Yes, the Levites had a clear mandate to promote pure worship!


#### 2Ch 29:25​—What does Nathan’s example teach us about the benefits of accepting correction from Jehovah? (w12 2/15 24-25)

As a faithful worshipper of Jehovah, Nathan enthusiastically endorsed David’s plan to construct the first permanent center of pure worship on earth. On that occasion, however, Nathan apparently expressed his own feelings instead of speaking in Jehovah’s name. That night, God instructed his prophet to take a different message to the king: David would not build Jehovah’s temple. The person to do so would be one of David’s sons. But Nathan announced that God was making a covenant with David to the effect that his throne would become “firmly established to time indefinite.”​—2 Sam. 7:4-16.


### True Worship Requires Hard Work

from workbook January 2016

Hezekiah's Reign 746-716 B.C.E., 740 B.C.E. Fall of Samaria

#### 29:10-17 Hezekiah restores true worship with determination

Days in Nisan 746 B.C.E.

- Days 1-8 Temple cleansed
- Days 9-16: Temple santification completed
- Atonement for all Israel and restoration of true worship began

#### 30:5, 6, 10-12 Hezekiah invites all righthearted ones to assemble for worship

- Couriers were dispatched to distribute letters, announcing the Passover throughout the land, from Beer-sheba to Dan
- While some mocked, many responded favorably

