## 2 Chronicles 30

```
Hezekiah observes the Passover (1-27)
```

#### 2Ch 30:20​—What can we learn from the way that Jehovah listened to Hezekiah? (w18.09 6 ¶14-15)

Another area that reveals the depth of our humility is our willingness to hear people out. James 1:19 says that we should “be quick to listen.” Jehovah himself sets the superlative example in this regard. (Gen. 18:32; Josh. 10:14) Consider what we can learn from the interchange recorded at Exodus 32:11-14. (Read.) Although not needing Moses’ input, Jehovah gave Moses an opportunity to reveal how he felt. What human would listen at length to the reasoning of someone who has displayed faulty thinking and then act on that person’s word? Yet, Jehovah listens patiently to humans who call on him in faith.

Each of us does well to ask: ‘If Jehovah can stoop down to deal with people and listen to them as he did with Abraham, Rachel, Moses, Joshua, Manoah, Elijah, and Hezekiah, should I not be better at honoring all my brothers, dignifying them, listening to their ideas, and even acting on their good ideas? Does someone in my congregation or in my family deserve my attention right now? What should I do about that? What will I do about that?’​—Gen. 30:6; Judg. 13:9; 1 Ki. 17:22; 2 Chron. 30:20.

### Gathering Together Is Good for Us

from [workbook May–June 2023](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/may-june-2023-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-June-5-11-2023/Gathering-Together-Is-Good-for-Us/)

- Hezekiah organized a great Passover in Jerusalem (2Ch 30:1; it-1 1103 ¶2)
- Many attended despite opposition (2Ch 30:10, 11, 13; it-1 1103 ¶3)
- They experienced great joy and were motivated to serve Jehovah (2Ch 30:25–31:1; it-1 1103 ¶4-5)
