## 2 Chronicles 33

```
Manasseh, king of Judah (1-9)
Manasseh repents of his badness (10-17)
Death of Manasseh (18-20)
Amon, king of Judah (21-25)
```

#### Timing of Manasseh's kingship

Ma·nasʹseh was 12 years old when he became king in 716 BCE and he reigned for 55 years until 661 BCE. He was 67 years old when he died (33:20) and his son Amon became king at the age of 22. He reigned only for 2 years from 661 to 659 BCE. Then his son Josiah became king at the age of 8 (34:1). So Josiah was 6 years old when his grandfather died, but he learned an important lesson from him. See "The Story of Josiah: Love Jehovah; Hate What Is Bad" from the 2019 regional convention "Love Never Fails".

#### 2Ch 33:11—What prophecy was fulfilled when Manasseh was taken to Babylon? (it-1 62 ¶2)

With regard to the “sixty-five years” at Isaiah 7:8, which Isaiah prophesied would be the period within which Ephraim would be “shattered to pieces,” the *Commentary on the Whole Bible* (by Jamieson, Fausset, and Brown) states: “*One* deportation of Israel happened within one or two years from this time [the time of Isaiah’s prophecy], under Tiglath-pileser (2 Kings 15. 29). *Another* in the reign of Hoshea, under Shalmaneser (2 Kings 17. 1-6), was about twenty years after. But the final one which utterly ‘broke’ up Israel so as to be ‘not a people,’ accompanied by a colonization of Samaria with foreigners, was under Esar-haddon, who carried away Manasseh, king of Judah, also, in the twenty-second year of his reign, sixty-five years from the utterance of this prophecy (cf. Ezra 4.2, 3, 10, with 2 Kings 17.24; 2 Chronicles 33.11).”

