## 2 Chronicles 34

```
Josiah, king of Judah (1, 2)
Josiah’s reforms (3-13)
Book of the Law found (14-21)
Huldah’s prophecy of calamity (22-28)
Josiah reads the book to the people (29-33)
```

### Are You Benefiting Fully From God’s Word?

Josiah listened to God’s Word carefully (2Ch 34:18, 19; see cover picture). He made an earnest effort to understand the meaning of what he was hearing (2Ch 34:21; it-1 1157 ¶4). 

When Josiah heard the reading of “the very book of the law” found by Hilkiah the high priest during the temple repair work, he sent a delegation to inquire of Jehovah. They went to Huldah, who, in turn, relayed the word of Jehovah, indicating that all the calamities for disobedience recorded in the “book” would befall the apostate nation. Huldah added that Josiah, because of having humbled himself before Jehovah, would not have to look upon the calamity but would be gathered to his forefathers and be taken to his graveyard in peace.​—2Ki 22:8-20; 2Ch 34:14-28.

He acted on what he learned (2Ch 34:33; w09 6/15 10 ¶20)

**ASK YOURSELF**, "Am I quick to act on what I learn about Jehovah in his Word, the Bible?" (from the workbook May-June 2023)

#### 2Ch 34:1-3—What encouragement can we draw from Josiah’s example? (w05 12/1 21 ¶6)

Any negative circumstances of childhood need not prevent us from coming to know God and serving him. A positive influence Josiah may have had during his early years could have come from his repentant grandfather, Manasseh. Whatever positive influences Josiah might have had eventually produced fine results. So it can be with us.

#### 2Ch 34:18, 30, 33—Reading the Bible and meditating on it can affect us profoundly (w05 12/1 21 ¶10)

Reading God’s Word and meditating on what we read can affect us profoundly. Does not reflecting on the account of the kings in the Davidic line encourage us to imitate the examples of those who made Jehovah their confidence and avoid the conduct of those who did not? Second Chronicles stimulates us to give our exclusive devotion to the true God and remain faithful to him. Its message certainly is alive and exerts power.—Hebrews 4:12.
