## 2 Chronicles 35

```
Josiah arranges for a great Passover (1-19)
Josiah killed by Pharaoh Necho (20-27)
```

#### 2Ch 35:20-23 ​— *What warning can we find in what happened to good King Josiah?* (w17.03 27 ¶15-17)

Consider what led to his defeat and death. Josiah "went out against" King Necho of Egypt, although that king told Josiah that he had no dispute with him. The Bible says that Necho’s words were "from the mouth of God." How, though, would Josiah know that Necho’s words were from Jehovah? Well, he could have asked Jeremiah, one of the faithful prophets. (2 Chron. 35:23, 25) But there is no record of his doing so. Also, Necho was heading to Carchemish to war "against another house," not to war against Jerusalem. Moreover, God’s name was not involved, for Necho was taunting neither Jehovah nor his people. So it was bad judgment on Josiah’s part to battle against Necho. Can we see in this a lesson that we can apply? When faced with a problem, we do well to consider what Jehovah’s will may be in the matter.

If a problem arises, we ought to consider what Bible principles are involved and apply them in a balanced way. In some cases, we may want to consult with the elders. We may have given thought to what we already know about the subject, and we may even have done research in our publications. Yet, there may be other Bible principles to take into consideration, which an elder might help us to analyze. [example] We need balance as we seek to do God’s will and strive to have a good conscience.
