## Judges 11

```
Judge Jephthah expelled, later made leader (1-11)
Jephthah reasons with Ammon (12-28)
Jephthah’s vow and his daughter (29-40)
  Daughter’s life of singleness (38-40)
```

#### Jg 11:1​—How do we know that Jephthah was not an illegitimate son? (it-2 26)

The mother of Jephthah was “a prostitute woman,” not meaning, however, that Jephthah was born of prostitution or was illegitimate. His mother *had been* a prostitute prior to her marriage as a secondary wife to Gilead, just as Rahab had once been a prostitute but later married Salmon. (Jg 11:1; Jos 2:1; Mt 1:5) That Jephthah was not illegitimate is proved by the fact that his half brothers by Gilead’s primary wife drove him out so that he would not share in the inheritance. (Jg 11:2) Additionally, Jephthah later became the accepted leader of the men of Gilead (of whom Jephthah’s half brothers seemed to be foremost). (Jg 11:11) Moreover, he offered a sacrifice to God at the tabernacle. (Jg 11:30, 31) None of these things would have been possible for an illegitimate son, for the Law specifically stated: “No illegitimate son may come into the congregation of Jehovah. Even to the tenth generation none of his may come into the congregation of Jehovah.”​—De 23:2.

### Jephthah—A Spiritual Man

from [workbook November–December 2021](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/november-december-2021-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-December-20-26-2021/Jephthah-A-Spiritual-Man/)

- Jephthah set aside personal differences with others (Jg 11:5-9; w16.04 7 ¶9)
- Jephthah was a student of Jehovah’s dealings with His people (Jg 11:12-15; it-2 27 ¶2)
- Jephthah kept his focus on the central issue ​—Jehovah’s Godship (Jg 11:23, 24, 27; it-2 27 ¶3)

In what specific ways am I demonstrating that I am a spiritual person?
