## Judges 20

```
War against the Benjaminites (1-48)
```

#### Jg 20:16​—How were slings used in ancient warfare? (w14 5/1 11 ¶4-6)

The sling was the weapon that David used to slay the giant Goliath. David apparently learned to use this weapon during his years as a shepherd boy.​—1 Samuel 17:40-50.

The sling is depicted in both the Egyptian and the Assyrian art from Bible times. The weapon consisted of an open pocket of leather or cloth attached to two straps or cords. The slinger would place in this pouch a smooth or rounded stone measuring two to three inches (5 to 7.5 cm) in diameter and weighing perhaps nine ounces (250 g). He would then whirl the sling above his head and release one of the cords, causing the stone to fly out with great force and accuracy.

Excavations in the Middle East have yielded great numbers of slingstones from wars in ancient times. Skilled warriors may have slung stones at speeds of 100 to 150 miles an hour (160 to 240 km/​h). Scholars disagree on whether the sling had the range of a bow, but a sling could certainly prove just as lethal.​—Judges 20:16.

### Keep Inquiring of Jehovah

from [workbook January–February 2022](https://www.jw.org/en/library/jw-meeting-workbook/january-february-2022-mwb/Life-and-Ministry-Meeting-Schedule-for-January-17-23-2022/Keep-Inquiring-of-Jehovah/)

- The Israelites repeatedly asked Jehovah for direction (Jg 20:17, 18, 23; w11 9/15 32 ¶2)
- The Israelites finally relied fully on Jehovah to help them clear his name of reproach (Jg 20:26-28)
- We must continue to seek Jehovah’s guidance and rely on him completely (Jg 20:35; Lu 11:9; w11 9/15 32 ¶4)
