## Genesis 15

```
God’s covenant with Abram (1-21)
  The 400 years of affliction foretold (13)
  God’s promise to Abram repeated (18-21)
```

#### Ge 15:13, 14 ​— *When did the 400 years of affliction begin and end?* (it-1 460-461)

Jehovah told Abram (Abraham): "You may know for sure that your seed will become an alien resident in a land not theirs, and they will have to serve them, and these will certainly afflict them for four hundred years." (Ge 15:13; see also Ac 7:6, 7.) This was stated prior to the birth of the promised heir or "seed," Isaac. In 1932 B.C.E. Ishmael was born to Abram by the Egyptian servant girl Hagar, and in 1918 B.C.E. Isaac was born. (Ge 16:16; 21:5) Counting back 400 years from the Exodus, which marked the end of the ‘afflicting’ (Ge 15:14), would bring us to 1913 B.C.E., and at that time Isaac was about five years old. It appears that Isaac was weaned then and, already "an alien resident" in a land not his, he now experienced the start of the foretold affliction in the form of Ishmael’s "poking fun," Ishmael being about 19. (Ge 21:8, 9) Although in modern times Ishmael’s mocking of Abraham’s heir might be viewed as inconsequential, such was not the case in patriarchal times. This is evidenced by Sarah’s reaction and God’s approval of her insistence that Hagar and her son Ishmael be sent away. (Ge 21:10-13) The very fact that this incident was recorded in detail in the divine record also points to its marking the commencement of the prophesied 400-year period of affliction that would not end until the Exodus.​—Ga 4:29.

#### Ge 15:16 ​— *How did Abraham’s descendants return to Canaan "in the fourth generation"?* (it-1 778 ¶4)

**"In the fourth generation."** We must remember that Jehovah told Abraham that in the fourth generation his descendants would return to Canaan. (Ge 15:16) In the entire 430 years from the time when the Abrahamic covenant took effect to the Exodus there were more than four generations, even considering the long life spans that they enjoyed during that time, according to the record. But it was only 215 years that the Israelites were *actually in Egypt*. The 'four generations' following their entering Egypt can be calculated in this way, using as an example just one tribe of Israel, the tribe of Levi: (1) Levi, (2) Kohath, (3) Amram, and (4) Moses.​—Ex 6:16, 18, 20.
