## Genesis 22

```
Abraham told to offer up Isaac (1-19)
  Blessing because of Abraham’s offspring (15-18)
Rebekah’s family (20-24)
```

#### Ge 22:5 ​— *On what basis could Abraham tell his servants that he and Isaac would return to them even though he thought that Isaac was to be sacrificed?* (w16.02 11 ¶13)

Before parting from the servants who accompanied them, Abraham said: "You stay here with the donkey, but the boy and I will go over there and worship and return to you." (Gen. 22:5) What did Abraham mean? Was he lying to his servants, telling them that Isaac would return when Abraham knew that Isaac was to be sacrificed? No. The Bible gives us some insight into what Abraham was thinking. (Read Hebrews 11:19.) Abraham "reasoned that God was able to raise [Isaac] up even from the dead." Yes, Abraham believed in the resurrection. He knew that Jehovah had revived his reproductive powers and those of Sarah in their old age. (Heb. 11:11, 12, 18) Abraham realized that nothing was impossible for Jehovah. So he was confident that whatever happened on that challenging day, his beloved son would be restored to him so that all of Jehovah’s promises could be fulfilled. No wonder Abraham is called "the father of all those having faith"!

#### Ge 22:12 ​— *How does this scripture indicate that Jehovah uses his foreknowledge selectively?* (it-1 853 ¶5-6)

**Selective exercise of foreknowledge.** The alternative to predestinarianism, the selective or discretionary exercise of God’s powers of foreknowledge, would have to harmonize with God’s own righteous standards and be consistent with what he reveals of himself in his Word. In contrast with the theory of predestinarianism, a number of texts point to an examination by God of a situation then current and a decision made on the basis of such examination.

Thus, at Genesis 11:5-8 God is described as directing his attention earthward, surveying the situation at Babel, and, at that time, determining the action to be taken to break up the unrighteous project there. After wickedness developed at Sodom and Gomorrah, Jehovah advised Abraham of his decision to investigate (by means of his angels) to "see whether they act altogether according to the outcry over it that has come to me, and, if not, I can get to know it." (Ge 18:20-22; 19:1) God spoke of ‘becoming acquainted with Abraham,’ and after Abraham went to the point of attempting to sacrifice Isaac, Jehovah said, "For now I do know that you are God-fearing in that you have not withheld your son, your only one, from me."​—Ge 18:19; 22:11, 12; compare Ne 9:7, 8; Ga 4:9.

### "God Put Abraham to the Test"

**22:1, 2, 9-12, 15-18** from workbook March 2020

The pain that Abraham suffered as he prepared to sacrifice Isaac helps us to imagine Jehovah’s pain when He offered His Son, Jesus Christ, as the ransom. (Joh 3:16) How do Jehovah’s words in verse 2 reflect his own tender feelings?
