## Genesis 24

```
Seeking a wife for Isaac (1-58)
Rebekah goes to meet Isaac (59-67)
```

#### Ge 24:19, 20 ​— *What lessons can we learn from Rebekah’s actions in these verses?* (wp16.3 12-13)

Note that Rebekah offered not merely to give the ten camels a drink but to water them until they were satisfied. If very thirsty, one camel might drink over 25 gallons (95 L) of water! If all ten camels were that thirsty, Rebekah faced hours of hard work. As matters turned out, it seems unlikely that the camels were extremely thirsty. (note below) But did Rebekah know that when she made her offer? No. She was willing, even eager, to work as hard as need be to show hospitality to this elderly stranger. He accepted her offer. Then he watched her intently as she ran back and forth, filling and refilling her jar and emptying it into the trough again and again.​—Genesis 24:20, 21.

**Note:** *It was already evening. The account contains no indication that Rebekah was detained at the well for hours. It does not imply that her family was asleep by the time she finished or that anyone came to see why her errand was taking so long.*

#### Ge 24:65 ​— *Why did Rebekah cover her head, and what lesson does this teach?* (wp16.3 15 ¶3)

When she learned that it was Isaac, she covered her head with her shawl. (Genesis 24:62-65) Why? Evidently the gesture was a sign of respect for her future husband. That kind of submission may strike some today as old-fashioned. Really, though, men as well as women may take a lesson from Rebekah’s humility, for who of us does not need more of that lovely quality?

### A Wife for Isaac

**24:2-4, 11-15, 58, 67** from workbook March 2020

Abraham’s servant sought Jehovah’s direction when choosing a wife for Isaac. (Ge 24:42-44) We too should seek Jehovah’s direction before making major decisions. How?

- Pray
- Consult God’s Word and Christian publications
- Seek help from spiritually mature Christians
