## Genesis 31

```
Jacob secretly departs for Canaan (1-18)
Laban overtakes Jacob (19-35)
Jacob’s covenant with Laban (36-55)
```

#### Ge 31:19 ​— *Why might Rachel have stolen the teraphim statues that belonged to her father?* (it-2 1087-1088)

The findings of archaeologists in Mesopotamia and adjacent areas indicate that the possession of the teraphim images had a bearing on who would receive the family inheritance. According to one tablet found at Nuzi, the possession of the household gods could under certain circumstances entitle a son-in-law to appear in court and claim the estate of his deceased father-in-law. (Ancient Near Eastern Texts, edited by J. Pritchard, 1974, pp. 219, 220, and ftn 51) Perhaps Rachel, with this in mind, reasoned that she was justified in taking the teraphim because of her father’s deceptive dealings with her husband Jacob. (Compare Ge 31:14-16.) The importance of the teraphim with respect to inheritance rights would also explain why Laban was so anxious to recover them, even to the point of taking his brothers with him and pursuing Jacob for a distance of seven days’ journey. (Ge 31:19-30) Of course, what Rachel had done was completely unknown to Jacob (Ge 31:32), and there is no indication that he ever attempted to use the teraphim to gain the inheritance from Laban’s sons. Jacob had nothing to do with idols. At the latest, the teraphim would have been disposed of when Jacob hid all the foreign gods turned over to him by his household under the big tree that was close to Shechem.​—Ge 35:1-4.

#### Ge 31:41, 42 ​— *What does Jacob’s example teach us about how to react to employers who are "hard to please"?* (1Pe 2:18; w13 3/15 21 ¶8)

When Jacob reached Haran, his uncle Laban extended a warm welcome to him and later gave him Leah and Rachel as wives. In time, though, Laban tried to exploit Jacob, changing his wages ten times! (Gen. 31:41, 42) Yet, Jacob endured these injustices, confident that Jehovah would continue to care for him​—and He did! Indeed, by the time God told Jacob to return to Canaan, the patriarch possessed "great flocks and maidservants and menservants and camels and asses." (Gen. 30:43) Deeply appreciative, Jacob prayed: "I am unworthy of all the loving-kindnesses and of all the faithfulness that you have exercised toward your servant, for with but my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps."​—Gen. 32:10.

### Jacob and Laban Make a Covenant of Peace

**31:44-53** from workbook April 2020

Why did Jacob and Laban make a pile of stones?

- It served as a witness to all passersby of the covenant of peace that they had made
- It reminded them that Jehovah was watching to see that they kept their covenant of peace

Today, Jehovah expects his people to enjoy peaceful relationships. How will these three actions help us to maintain peace or to restore it?

- Talking it out.​—Mt 5:23, 24
- Forgiving freely.​—Col 3:13
- Being patient.​—Ro 12:21
