## Genesis 32

```
Angels meet Jacob (1, 2)
Jacob prepares to meet Esau (3-23)
Jacob wrestles with an angel (24-32)
  Jacob renamed Israel (28)
```

#### Ge 32:11, 13-15​—*How can we imitate Jacob’s diligent efforts to make peace?* (w10 6/15 22 ¶10-11)

Gracious speech and good communication help to establish and sustain peaceful relationships. In fact, doing what we can to improve our relationships with others can improve our communication with them. Reaching out to others with sincere, kind acts​—finding opportunities to help, giving a gift from the heart, extending hospitality—​can contribute to open communication. It can even "heap fiery coals" on a person and may bring out good qualities, making it easier to talk things out.​—Rom. 12:20, 21.

The patriarch Jacob understood this. His twin brother, Esau, was so angry with him that Jacob fled for fear Esau would kill him. After many years, Jacob returned. Esau came out to meet him, along with 400 men. Jacob prayed for Jehovah’s help. Then he sent ahead to Esau a large gift of livestock. The gift achieved its purpose. When they met, Esau’s heart had softened, and he ran and embraced Jacob.​—Gen. 27:41-44; 32:6, 11, 13-15; 33:4, 10.

### Are You Wrestling for a Blessing?

**32:24-28** from workbook April 2020 

To receive Jehovah’s blessing, we must exert ourselves to keep Kingdom interests first in our life. (1Co 9:26, 27) Aged Jacob demonstrated the spirit with which we should fulfill our Christian responsibilities. We show that we earnestly seek Jehovah’s blessing by . . .

- Preparing well for congregation meetings
- Participating regularly in the ministry
- Striving to help others in the congregation
