## Genesis 35

```
Jacob gets rid of foreign gods (1-4)
Jacob returns to Bethel (5-15)
Benjamin’s birth; Rachel’s death (16-20)
Israel’s 12 sons (21-26)
Isaac’s death (27-29)
```

#### Ge 35:8​—*Who was Deborah, and what can we learn from her?* (it-1 600 ¶4)

Rebekah’s nurse. When Rebekah left the household of her father Bethuel to move to Palestine and marry Isaac, Deborah accompanied her. (Ge 24:59) After years of service in Isaac’s household, Deborah came to be in Jacob’s household, perhaps after the death of Rebekah. Evidently some 125 years after Rebekah’s marriage to Isaac, Deborah died and was buried under a big tree at Bethel. The name given to the tree (Allon-bacuth, meaning "Massive Tree of Weeping") indicates how beloved she had become to Jacob and his family.​—Ge 35:8.

#### Ge 35:22-26​—*How do we know that the line leading to the Messiah was not tied to the right of the firstborn?* (w17.12 14)

We have at times made comments to that effect. That seemed to agree with what we read at Hebrews 12:16. That verse says that Esau did "*not appreciate sacred things*" and "*gave up [to Jacob the] rights as firstborn* in exchange for one meal." This appeared to suggest that when Jacob gained the "rights as firstborn," he also came in line to be an ancestor to the Messiah.​—Matt. 1:2, 16; Luke 3:23, 34.
However, a review of Bible accounts shows that a man did not need to be a firstborn son to be an ancestor of the Messiah. Consider some of the evidence:
Of the sons of Jacob (Israel), his firstborn by Leah was Reuben. Later, Jacob’s first son by his favored wife, Rachel, was Joseph. When Reuben became guilty of misconduct, the right of firstborn passed to Joseph. (Gen. 29:31-35; 30:22-25; 35:22-26; 49:22-26; 1 Chron. 5:1, 2) Still, the Messianic line came down through neither Reuben nor Joseph. It was through Judah, Jacob’s fourth son by Leah.​—Gen. 49:10.
