## Genesis 37

```
Joseph’s dreams (1-11)
Joseph and his jealous brothers (12-24)
Joseph sold into slavery (25-36)
```

#### Ge 37:29-32​—*Why did Joseph’s brothers show Joseph’s torn, bloodstained robe to Jacob?* (it-1 561-562 custody)

When a shepherd or herdsman said he would keep or guard a flock or herd, he was indicating legal acceptance of the custody of these animals. He was guaranteeing the owner that they would be fed and not stolen, or else compensation would be paid. However, his responsibility was not absolute, for the above law absolved the guardian of liability in the case of an occurrence beyond normal human control, such as attack by wild beasts. To be relieved of the responsibility of custody, though, he had to submit evidence to the owner, as, for example, the torn carcass. The owner, on examination of such evidence, was bound to return a verdict of innocence on the part of the custodian.

The same principle applied in general to any entrusted property, even in family relationships, for example, the oldest brother was considered the legal guardian of his younger brothers and sisters. Hence, we can understand the concern that Reuben as an eldest son had for Joseph’s life, as recorded at Genesis 37:18-30, when the other brothers spoke of killing him. "He said: ‘Let us not strike his soul fatally.’ . . . ‘Do not spill blood. . . . do not lay a violent hand upon him.’ His purpose was to deliver him out of their hand in order to return him to his father." And when Reuben discovered Joseph’s absence, his anxiety was so extreme that "he ripped his garments apart" and exclaimed: "The child is gone! And I​—where am I really to go?" He knew that he could be held accountable for the loss of Joseph. To escape responsibility, the brothers shrewdly fabricated evidence to the effect that Joseph had been killed by a wild beast. This they did by soaking Joseph’s striped garment in goat’s blood. They then submitted this evidence to Jacob, their father and patriarchal judge, who absolved Reuben of any responsibility because, on the basis of Joseph’s blood-soaked garment that his brothers presented as evidence, Jacob concluded that Joseph had been killed.​—Ge 37:31-33.

### Joseph Becomes a Victim of Jealousy

**37:3-9, 11, 23, 24, 28** from workbook May 2020

Joseph’s experience illustrates the harmful effects of improper jealousy. Match the scriptures to the reasons why we should stamp down any feelings we may have of improper jealousy.

**SCRIPTURE**

- 1Sa 18:8, 9
- Pr 14:30
- 2Co 12:20
- Ga 5:19-21

**REASON**

- Jealous people will not inherit God’s Kingdom
- Jealousy disrupts the peace and unity of the congregation
- Jealousy harms us physically
- Jealousy blinds us from seeing the good in others

What situations might cause us to become jealous?
