## Genesis 41

```
Joseph interprets Pharaoh’s dreams (1-36)
Joseph exalted by Pharaoh (37-46a)
Joseph’s food administration (46b-57)
```

#### Ge 41:14​—Why did Joseph shave before seeing Pharaoh? (w15 11/1 9 ¶1-3)

According to the Genesis account, Pharaoh ordered that the Hebrew prisoner Joseph be quickly brought before him to interpret his troubling dreams. By this time, Joseph had been imprisoned for a number of years. Despite the urgency of Pharaoh’s summons, Joseph took the time to shave. (Genesis 39:20-23; 41:1, 14) That the writer mentions this seemingly insignificant detail at all shows that he was familiar with Egyptian customs.

Letting one’s beard grow was the norm among many ancient nations, including the Hebrews. In contrast, “the ancient Egyptians were the only Oriental nation who objected to wearing the beard,” says McClintock and Strong’s *Cyclopedia of Biblical, Theological, and Ecclesiastical Literature.*

Was shaving limited to the beard? The magazine *Biblical Archaeology Review* suggests that some Egyptian ceremonial customs required a man to prepare to appear before Pharaoh as he would to enter a temple. In such a case, Joseph would have had to shave all the hair of his head and body.

#### Ge 41:33​—What can we discern from the way that Joseph spoke to Pharaoh? (w09 11/15 28 ¶14)

Godly parents in Bible times made sure that their children learned basic points of courtesy in the home. Consider the polite way in which Abraham and his son Isaac addressed each other at Genesis 22:7. The good training from his parents was evident also in the case of Joseph. When imprisoned, he was courteous even to his fellow prisoners. (Gen. 40:8, 14) His words to Pharaoh show that he had learned the proper way to address a person of high office.​—Gen. 41:16, 33, 34.

### Jehovah Delivers Joseph

**41:9-13, 16, 29-32, 38-40** from workbook May 2020

Joseph suffered as a slave and a prisoner for about 13 years before Jehovah delivered him. Rather than becoming bitter, Joseph let this experience refine him. (Ps 105:17-19) He knew that Jehovah never abandoned him. How did Joseph make the best of his situation?

- He showed industriousness and trustworthiness, giving Jehovah a basis to bless him.​—Ge 39:21, 22
- He took an interest in others instead of plotting revenge against those who mistreated him.​—Ge 40:5-7
