## Genesis 42

```
Joseph’s brothers go to Egypt (1-4)
Joseph meets his brothers and tests them (5-25)
The brothers return home to Jacob (26-38)
```

#### Ge 42:22, 37​—*What good qualities did Reuben display?* (it-2 795)

Some of Reuben’s good qualities displayed themselves when he persuaded his nine brothers to throw Joseph into a dry well instead of killing him, Reuben intending to return secretly and deliver Joseph out of the well. (Ge 37:18-30) More than 20 years later when these same brothers reasoned that the spy charges against them down in Egypt were due to their mistreatment of Joseph, Reuben reminded the others that he had not shared in their plot on Joseph’s life. (Ge 42:9-14, 21, 22) Again, when Jacob refused to let Benjamin accompany his brothers on their second trip to Egypt, it was Reuben who offered his own two sons as surety, saying: “You may put [them] to death if I do not bring [Benjamin] back to you.”​—Ge 42:37.

### Joseph Shows Great Self-Control

**42:5-7, 14-17, 21, 22** from workbook May 2020

Can you imagine the strong emotions that Joseph may have felt when he unexpectedly came face-to-face with his brothers? He could have immediately identified himself and then either embraced them or taken revenge. But he did not act on impulse. What will you do if you are the victim of injustice from family members or others? Joseph’s example teaches the value of exercising self-control and remaining calm rather than following our treacherous heart and acting on imperfect impulses.
